1. what you did

We downloaded the government provided data set on the recovery funds spending and analyzed it with as many tools, graphics as we could use in the time frame. The purpose was to answer a few basic questions:

* Who gve the money out, and who received the money?
* How was the money distributed? 
* Where did the money get spent? (Locations of recipients)
* What types of jobs were created?
* Where did jobs get created?
* Was politics involved in the allocation of funds?

video:

I Do picture of the main page of the web site - 
voice to point out the tabs at top, and how they map to questions, make fun of the "Huh", explain the bar chart and findings. Used a web site to deliver the information because it was the easiest way to preent quite broad and disparate findings.

II Video of the interaction with where funding, mousing over the Australia and Austria
voice to point out the incorrect descriptions.

III What other analysis should we feature?

2. why you decided to get involved

This competition gave us an opportunity to make sense of current events in an exciting way. Because there was prize money to be won it was a great way to challenge and involve the students. I believe that opportunities like this add a lot of value to a graduate students education.

video:

picture the crew! 
voice the students names and a little background, mention faculty and justin

3. your overall impressions

I really like the goal of "transparent government". There were probably too many possible choices of tasks but it likely enabled a broad swath of the community to engage in the competition. It was more common to see entries attempting the design challenges than the data analysis challenges, and some of the entries to the data analysis challenges tended to be "look what my software could do" rather than analyzing the data. 

I hope that our analysis of the data can help the government recovery web page, clean their data, focus their page a little more to explain some of our findings.

video:

picture the design for america web site, scroll to show all the opportunities.
voice the info written above. 
