Stat 100. Orientation in Statistics. (1-0) Cr. R. F.Opportunities, challenges, and the scope of the curriculum in statistics. For students planning or considering a career in this area.
Stat 101. Principles of Statistics. (3-2) Cr. 4. F.S.SS.Prereq: 1 1/2 years of high school algebra. Statistical concepts in modern society; descriptive statistics and graphical displays of data; the normal distribution; data collection (sampling and designing experiments); elementary probability; elements of statistical inference; estimation and hypothesis testing; linear regression and correlation; contingency tables. Credit for only one of the following courses may be applied toward graduation: Stat 101, 104, 105, 226.
Stat 104. Introduction to Statistics. (2-2) Cr. 3. F.S.SS.Prereq: 1 1/2 years of high school algebra. Statistical concepts and their use in science; collecting, organizing and drawing conclusions from data; elementary probability; binomial and normal distributions; regression; estimation and hypothesis testing. For students in the agricultural and biological sciences. Credit for only one of the following courses may be applied toward graduation: Stat 101, 104, 105, 226.
Stat 105. Introduction to Statistics for Engineers. (3-0) Cr. 3. F.S.Prereq: Math 165 (or 165H). Statistical concepts with emphasis on engineering applications. Data collection; descriptive statistics; probability distributions and their properties; elements of statistical inference; regression; statistical quality control charts; use of statistical software; team project involving data collection, description and analysis. Credit for only one of the following courses may be applied toward graduation: Stat 101, 104, 105, 226. Credit for both Stat 105 and 305 may not be applied for graduation.
Stat 226. Introduction to Business Statistics I. (3-0) Cr. 3. F.S.SS.Prereq: Math 150 or 165. Obtaining, presenting, and organizing statistical data; measures of location and dispersion; the Normal distribution; sampling and sampling distributions; elements of statistical inference; estimation and confidence intervals; hypothesis testing; inference for simple linear regression analysis; use of computers to visualize and analyze data. Credit for only one of the following courses may be applied toward graduation: Stat 101, 104, 105, 226.
Stat 231. Probability and Statistical Inference for Engineers. (4-0) Cr. 4. F.S.Prereq: Credit or enrollment in Math 265. Emphasis on engineering applications. Basic probability; random variables and probability distributions; joint and sampling distributions. Descriptive statistics; confidence intervals; hypothesis testing; simple linear regression; multiple linear regression; one way analysis of variance; use of statistical software.
Stat 305. Engineering Statistics. (3-0) Cr. 3. F.S.SS.Prereq: Math 165 (or 165H). Statistics for engineering problem solving. Principles of engineering data collection; descriptive statistics; elementary probability distributions; principles of experimentation; confidence intervals and significance tests; one-, two-, and multi-sample studies; regression analysis; use of statistical software; team project involving engineering experimentation and data analysis. Credit for both Stat 105 and 305 may not be applied for graduation.
Stat 322. Probabilistic Methods for Electrical Engineers. (Cross-listed with E E). (3-0) Cr. 3. F.S.Prereq: E E 224. Introduction to probability with applications to electrical engineering. Sets and events, probability space, conditional probability, total probability and Bayes' rule. Discrete and continuous random variables, cumulative distribution function, probability mass and density functions, expectation, moments, moment generating functions, multiple random variables, functions of random variables. Elements of statistics, hypothesis testing, confidence intervals, least squares. Introduction to random processes.
Stat 326. Introduction to Business Statistics II. (2-2) Cr. 3. F.S.Prereq: 226. Multiple regression analysis; regression diagnostics; model building; applications in analysis of variance and time series; random variables; distributions; conditional probability; statistical process control methods; use of computers to visualize and analyze data.
Stat 330. Probability and Statistics for Computer Science. (3-0) Cr. 3. F.S.Prereq: Math 166. Topics from probability and statistics applicable to computer science. Basic probability; Random variables and their distributions; Elementary probabilistic simulation; Queuing models; Basic statistical inference; Introduction to regression. Nonmajor graduate credit.
Stat 332. Visual Communication of Quantitative Information. (Cross-listed with Engl). (3-0) Cr. 3. Alt. S., offered 2010.Prereq: Stat 101, 104 or 226; Engl 250. Communicating quantitative information using visual displays; visualizing data; interactive and dynamic data displays; evaluating current examples in the media; color, perception, and representation in graphs; interpreting data displays. Nonmajor graduate credit.
Stat 341. Introduction to the Theory of Probability and Statistics I. (Cross-listed with Math). (3-0) Cr. 3. F.S.Prereq: Math 265 (or 265H). Probability; distribution functions and their properties; classical discrete and continuous distribution functions; multivariate probability distributions and their properties; moment generating functions; simulation of random variables and use of the R statistical package. Credit for both Stat 341 and 447 may not be applied toward graduation.
Stat 342. Introduction to the Theory of Probability and Statistics II. (Cross-listed with Math). (3-0) Cr. 3. S.Prereq: Stat 341; Math 307 or 317. Transformations of random variables; sampling distributions; confidence intervals and hypothesis testing; theory of estimation and hypothesis tests; linear model theory; enumerative data; use of the R statistical package for simulation and data analysis.
Stat 361. Statistical Quality Assurance. (Cross-listed with I E). (2-2) Cr. 3. F.S.Prereq: Stat 231 or 401. Statistical methods for process improvement. Simple quality assurance principles and tools. Measurement system precision and accuracy assessment. Control charts. Process capability assessment. Experimental design and analysis for process improvement. Significant external project in process improvement. Nonmajor graduate credit.
Stat 398. Cooperative Education. Cr. R. F.S.SS.Prereq: Permission of department chair. Off-campus work periods for undergraduate students in a field of statistics.
Stat 401. Statistical Methods for Research Workers. (3-2) Cr. 4. F.S.SS.Prereq: 101 or 104 or 105 or 226. Graduate students without an equivalent course should contact the department. Methods of analyzing and interpreting experimental and survey data. Statistical concepts and models; estimation; hypothesis tests with continuous and discrete data; simple and multiple linear regression and correlation; introduction to analysis of variance and blocking. Nonmajor graduate credit.
Stat 402. Statistical Design and the Analysis of Experiments. (3-0) Cr. 3. F.S.Prereq: 401. The role of statistics in research and the principles of experimental design. Experimental units, randomization, replication, blocking, subdividing and repeatedly measuring experimental units; factorial treatment designs and confounding; extensions of the analysis of variance to cover general crossed and nested classifications and models that include both classificatory and continuous factors. Determining sample size. Nonmajor graduate credit.
Stat 404. Regression for Social and Behavioral Research. (2-2) Cr. 3. F.Prereq: 401. Lorenz, Roberts. Applications of generalized linear regression models to social science data. Assumptions of regression; diagnostics and transformations; analysis of variance and covariance; path analysis; logistic, multinomial and Poisson regression. Nonmajor graduate credit.
Stat 406. Statistical Methods for Spatial Data. (3-0) Cr. 3. Alt. S., offered 2010.Prereq: Six hours of statistics at the 400-level. The analysis of spatial data; geostatistical methods and spatial prediction; discrete index random fields and Markov random field models; models for spatial point processes. Emphasis on application and practical use of spatial statistical analysis. Nonmajor graduate credit.
Stat 407. Methods of Multivariate Analysis. (2-2) Cr. 3. F.Prereq: 401, knowledge of matrix algebra. Carriquiry, Cook. Techniques for displaying and analyzing multivariate data including plotting high-dimensional data using interactive graphics, comparing group mean vectors using Hotelling's T2, multivariate analysis of variance, reducing variable dimension with principal components, grouping/classifying observations with cluster analysis and discriminant analysis. Imputation of missing multivariate observations. Nonmajor graduate credit.
Stat 415. Advanced Statistical Methods for Research Workers. (2-2) Cr. 3. Alt. S., offered 2010.Prereq: 401. Advanced statistical methods using modern computer methods for modeling and analyzing data. Examples from a wide variety of scientific and engineering disciplines. Nonmajor graduate credit.
Stat 416. Statistical Design and Analysis of Microarray Experiments. (3-0) Cr. 3. S.Prereq: Stat 401. Introduction to two-color microarray technology and single-channel platforms (Affymetrix GeneChips); the role of blocking, randomization, and biological and technical replication in microarray experiments; design of single-channel and two-color microarray experiments with factorial treatment structure; normalization methods for single-channel and two-color microarray data; methods for identifying differentially expressed genes including mixed linear model analyses, empirical Bayes analyses, and resampling based approaches; procedures for controlling false discovery rate for multiple testing; clustering and classification problems for microarray data; testing gene categories; emphasis on practical use of methods. Nonmajor graduate credit.
Stat 421. Survey Sampling Techniques. (2-2) Cr. 3. S.Prereq: 231 or 328 or 401. Concepts of sample surveys and the survey process; methods of designing sample surveys, including: simple random, stratified, and multistage sampling designs; methods of analyzing sample surveys including ratio, regression, domain estimation and nonresponse. Nonmajor graduate credit.
Stat 430. Empirical Methods for Computer Science. (3-0) Cr. 3. F.Prereq: Stat 330 or an equivalent course, Math 166, knowledge of linear algebra.. Programs and systems as objects of empirical studies; exploratory data analysis; selected topics from analysis of designed experiments - analysis of variance, hypothesis testing, interaction among variables; linear regression, logistic regression, Poisson regression; parameter estimation, prediction, confidence regions, dimension reduction techniques, model diagnostics and sensitivity analysis; Markov chains and processes; simulation techniques and bootstrap methods; applications to performance assessment - comparison of multiple systems; communicating results of empirical studies. Statistical software: R. Nonmajor graduate credit.
Stat 432. Applied Probability Models. (3-0) Cr. 3. F.Prereq: 231 or 341 or 447. Probabilistic models in biological, engineering and the physical sciences. Markov chains; Poisson, birth-and-death, renewal, branching and queing processes; applications to bioinformatics and other quantitative problems. Nonmajor graduate credit.
Stat 447. Statistical Theory for Research Workers. (4-0) Cr. 4. F.S.SS.Prereq: Math 151 and permission of instructor, or Math 265. Primarily for graduate students not majoring in statistics. Emphasis on aspects of the theory underlying statistical methods. Probability, probability density and mass functions, distribution functions, moment generating functions, sampling distributions, point and interval estimation, maximum likelihood and likelihood ratio tests, introduction to posterior distributions and Bayesian analysis, linear model theory, use of simulation. Credit for both Stat 341 and 447 may not be applied toward graduation. Nonmajor graduate credit.
Stat 451. Applied Time Series. (3-0) Cr. 3. S.Prereq: 231 or 328 or 401. Meeker. Methods for analyzing data collected over time; review of multiple regression analysis. Elementary forecasting methods: moving averages and exponential smoothing. Autoregressive-moving average (Box-Jenkins) models: identification, estimation, diagnostic checking, and forecasting. Transfer function models and intervention analysis. Introduction to multivariate time series methods. Nonmajor graduate credit.
Stat 457. Applied Categorical Data Analysis. (3-0) Cr. 3. Alt. S., offered 2011.Prereq: Stat 401 (or equivalent). Statistical methods for the analysis of categorical data: estimation of proportions, chi-square tests, sample size determination, measures of association and relative risk, measures of agreement, logistic regression, Poisson regression and log-linear models, matched-pair and repeated measures designs, conditional inference. Applications to social, behavioral, and health sciences. Nonmajor graduate credit.
Stat 479. Computer Processing of Statistical Data. (3-0) Cr. 3. F.Prereq: 401. Marasinghe. Structure, content and programming aspects of the Statistical Analysis System (SAS) software package. Advanced techniques in the use of SAS for data analysis including statistical graphics, regression diagnostics, and complex analysis of variance models. If time permits, the SAS macro programming language will be introduced. Nonmajor graduate credit.
Stat 480. Statistical Computing Applications. (3-0) Cr. 3. S.Prereq: 231 or 328 or 401. Modern statistical computing. Data management; spread sheets, verifying data accuracy, transferring data between software packages. Data and graphical analysis with statistical software packages. Algorithmic programming concepts and applications. Simulation. Software reliability. Nonmajor graduate credit.
Stat 490. Independent Study. Cr. arr. Repeatable.Prereq: 10 credits in statistics. No more than 9 credits in Stat 490 may be counted toward graduation.
H. Honors.
Stat 493. Workshop in Statistics. (2-0) Cr. 2. Alt. S., offered 2011.Prereq: 101 or 104 or 226. Off-Campus only. Introduction to methods for analyzing data from surveys and experiments. Summarizing data, analysis of data from simple random samples and more complex survey designs, experimental design, estimation and hypothesis testing for data from simple experiments, good and bad graphical presentations of results. Designed for master of agriculture program only. Nonmajor graduate credit.
Stat 495. Applied Statistics for Industry I. (3-0) Cr. 3. Alt. F., offered 2010.Prereq: 101 or 104 or 105 or 226; Math 166 (or 166H). Graduate students without an equivalent course should consult the department. Statistical thinking applied to industrial processes. Assessing, monitoring and improving processes using statistical methods. Analytic/enumerative studies; graphical displays of data; fundamentals of six sigma; process monitoring; control charts; capability analysis. Nonmajor graduate credit.
Stat 496. Applied Statistics for Industry II. (3-0) Cr. 3. Alt. S., offered 2011.Prereq: 495. Statistical design and analysis of industrial experiments. Concepts of control, randomization and replication. Simple and multiple regression; factorial and fractional factorial experiments; application of ideas of six sigma; reliability; analysis of lifetime data. Nonmajor graduate credit.